Vinegar Culture in Zhenjiang

Vinegar has been an indispensable condiment in the world since ancient times. Legend has it that vinegar in China was invented in the Xia Dynasty (c. 21st - 16th centuries B.C.) by Hei Ta, son of the Chinese wine saint Du Kang. Having learned the art of winemaking from his father, Hei Ta thought it was a waste to throw away the wine lees and stored them in a the jar. When he later opened the jar, he tasted a sour and sweet flavor. Naming this liquid “醋” [vinegar], Hei Ta was the first person of vinegar making in China.
	
The earliest historical written record related to vinegar is from <em>Rites of Zhou</em> in the Zhou Dynasty (10th - 2nd centuries B.C.). And the earliest record about the vinegar production process appeared in the Southern and Northern Dynasty (420-589 A.D.). The author listed the elements of vinegar making such as raw materials, ingredients, measurement, and time and pointed out the film on the surface of wine is a substance that can ferment the grain. This film is exactly today’s acetate bacteria. But in the Southern and Northern Dynasty, vinegar was still regarded as a luxury food and became a standard for high-class banquets. 
	
In the affluent and prosperous Tang and Song dynasties (7th – 13th centuries A.D.), the overall demand for wine increased dramatically, and vinegar, as an accessory to wine, developed accordingly. Vinegar was no longer a luxury and became an essential condiment in ordinary people’s life. The economy of the early Qing Dynasty (17th century) was the peak of Chinese feudal society. People in different parts of China had created various vinegar brands in their long-term vinegar-making practice. Among them, Shanxi Mature Aged vinegar, Zhenjiang Vinegar, Sichuan Baoning Vinegar, and Fujian Yongchun Red Vinegar are the four famous kinds of vinegar in modern China.



Specific Terroir for Zhenjiang

According to the Chinese Medicine Dictionary: “Vinegar produced in Hangzhou and Shaoxing counties is brilliant, but vinegar in Zhenjiang is the best.” The spring up of the vinegar industry and the blossoming of vinegar culture in Zhenjiang arise from the favorable climatic and geographical conditions richly endowed by nature. 

Located in the southeastern part of China, Zhenjiang is run through by the Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal and is only 305km from the mouth of Yangtze River in the east, which is the intersection of rivers. By the end of the Qing Dynasty, Zhenjiang vinegar radiated to all areas in China through waterway transport, increasing the popularity of the Zhenjiang vinegar industry. 

In addition to convenient transportation, Zhenjiang also enjoys unique natural water resources. The sedimentary rocks, marble, and granite compose the hills in Zhenjiang, and thus water collected through the penetration of rocks is rich in minerals and favorable to the brewing of unique Zhenjiang Vinegar flavor. Meanwhile, affected by the subtropical monsoon climate, Zhenjiang is in the humid zone with abundant average precipitation of 1222.3 mm. Such a humid environment provides the ideal condition for rice growing. The locally produced sticky rice, raw materials of Zhenjiang Vinegar, has strong glutinousness, high branched-chain starch content, and less miscellaneous flavor after fermentation. Therefore, the finished product of Zhenjiang vinegar has excellent quality and thick rich taste.




Hengshun Branding and Brewing Technique

If Zhenjiang’s unique water resources and raw materials come from the gift of nature, then it is the credit of the Hengshun Industry integrating these natural resources to mass-produce Zhenjiang vinegar. Founded in 1840, Hengshun Industry is the earliest producer and inheritor of Zhenjiang vinegar and is currently the largest vinegar manufacturer in China. Since 1910, Hengshun Industry has been awarded the gold medal by the “Nanyang Dynamic Industry Association” and became the licensed producer of Shanghai World Expo in 2010.

Hengshun Industry adopts the traditional “solid-state stratifying fermentation” process, a brewing technique included in the first batch of the Chinese intangible culture heritage protection list. Starting from selecting sticky rice of local specialty, the whole brewing operation takes 180 days, excluding the storage time, through the three processes of winemaking, fermenting, and vinegar drenching.



Vinegar Consumption: the Value of Vinegar
The unique geographical environment and the large-scale brewing technology have provided a continuous high-quality supply chain for Zhenjiang Vinegar, while, on the other hand, the high consumption of Zhenjiang citizens for vinegar has also become an indispensable part of vinegar culture. Because Zhenjiang has immigrants from the north in history, they like to eat wheat food (wheat is the staple food in northern China), and drinking vinegar can neutralize the alkali in the wheat food. As time went by, drinking vinegar developed into a habit.

Zhenjiang Vinegar can enhance the flavor and aroma, remove the fishy and greasy, and help the appetite and seasoning. In fact, vinegar also holds medicinal value and has been included in many medical prescriptions. In the Compendium of Materia Medica by Li Shizhen, a distinguished medical scientist in the Ming Dynasty, it is stated that: “Decoction with salt and vinegar to treat cholera, vomiting, and diarrhea. Use old cotton soaked in vinegar and wrap the painful area with steam heat for the foot cramp.” Besides, vinegar can lower blood pressure and blood fat because it contains vitamin C and rich potassium, which can dilate blood vessels, promote the excretion of cholesterol, and enhance the elasticity and permeability of blood vessels.




The Standardization, Protection and Commercialization of Zhenjiang Vinegar

Hengshun Industry has almost formed a monopoly in the production of Zhenjiang vinegar. The company has been using the traditional process for more than 100 years. Adhering to the standardized quality control of the whole chain, Hengshun Industry examines each production link for strict quality inspection before entering the next production process, ensuring product safety and stable quality. Besides the standardized production model, the local government also establishes the “Zhenjiang Hengshun vinegar making technician center,” which employs retired old vinegar workers with skills and experience to teach and preserve the traditional production skills of hand-made vinegar.

The local government attaches great importance to the promotion and protection of vinegar. In 2008, the Vinegar Culture Museum was built in Zhenjiang, which is the first professional vinegar theme museum integrating cultural heritage protection, science education and industrial tourism. On July 29, 2016, the 24th meeting of the Standing Committee of the 12th People’s Congress of Jiangsu Province voted to adopt the Regulations on the Protection of Zhenjiang Balsamic Vinegar. Vinegar is written into the legal provisions for the production process, cultural heritage, intellectual property protection, industrial support and development, supervision and management, and legal responsibility.

The commercialization of the vinegar is also successful enough. The brand value of Zhenjiang Vinegar has reached 45.892 billion RMB, ranking second in the national geographical indication protection products in China, spreading to 170 countries and regions, accounting for more than 60% of the total export of vinegar, and also selected as one of the top ten most popular Chinese goods by US netizens.


